What will Assassin’s Creed Ragnarok gameplay be like?
Ubisoft hasn’t shown any official gameplay as of yet, and they’ve certainly not confirmed anything from the leaked information. That said, if any of the leaked info is to be believed, there could be a significant number of updates. You can read the full list of leaked (and unconfirmed) gameplay info here, but we’ve whittled it down to what looks to be the most important stuff.
Up to 4-player drop-in/drop-out co-op much like Ghost Recon Wildlands.

New RPG mechanics introduce a new class system and skill tree changes based on that choice. You’ll be able to change your character class.

More weapon types, and weapons can be upgraded with runes, special abilities for certain groups of weapons. Durability will play a role, too.

Rather than adrenaline, players can activate a berserker mode that also activates rune powers based on elemental types - lightning, fire, frost.

Sailing is back, with more focus on exploration than combat.

The hidden blade returns and can be upgraded for one-hit kills.

Stealth is receiving some upgrades, like allowing a player to hide in mud, snow, crouching in bushes, and other hiding options. Players can also hide themselves in crowds of people so long as their clothing doesn’t stick out.

Reputation system based on who, what, and where you conquest.

Conquest battles return.

Battles between independent kingdoms (as in you don’t control them yet) may occur naturally.

Players can organize large-scale raids on forts and large cities, or just go it alone.

Difficulty has been overhauled. Rather than being about enemy health, difficulty will determine your own health, parry times, and enemy reaction times.

Leveling is also getting an overhaul, allowing players to improve their individual skillsets and gain experience in them. The leaked info describes it being similar to The Elder Scross V: Skyrim. This also means that regions being locked by level number is gone.

As for the map, the leaked info says it comprises most or all of northern Europe, including the cites of York, London, Paris, and Kiev.

It’s worth reiterating that none of this information has been confirmed by Ubisoft, so take it all with a huge grain of salt. While past Assassin’s Creed leaks have historically been mostly on the money, that doesn’t mean that any one of these supposed details is really in the game.


