Disney Plus Marvel TV shows and movies: every superhero coming to the service
It’s pretty clear that Disney has big plans for its Marvel TV shows as well as its movies in the coming years, and Disney Plus will allow you to catch up, and keep up, with the Marvel universe in 4K/HDR.

With Marvel assembling alongside heavy-hitters like Star Wars, Pixar and Disney itself on the streaming service, fans are naturally wondering just how much it will cost them to keep up with the exploits of their favorite heroes. If that’s the case just head to our Disney Plus price guide which has all the information you’ll need. 

So, curious about what Marvel treats are actually coming to Disney Plus, and what you can already stream on the service? Here’s everything that’s been announced so far. 

Disney Plus TV shows: what and when?
One of the most exciting things about Disney Plus is the prospect of a deluge of new and exclusive Marvel TV shows that might actually hold up against their cinematic counterparts – and make up for previous misadventures. Given the big names attached to the shows, and reports that each episode of each show could have a budget of as much as $25 million, expectations of quality are high. 

Disney has already confirmed a handful of shows that will be coming to the service over the next couple of years and we know that there’ll be a mix of live-action, animation and documentary on offer. But it’ll be a while until the new offerings start, with the first big series starting in 2020. 

The first new and exclusive show out the gate will be The Falcon and the Winter Soldier with Anthony Mackie and Sebastian Stan reprising their respective roles for the small screen. 
After that we know Elizabeth Olsen and Paul Bettany will be reunited as Scarlett Witch and Vision in WandaVision; Tom Hiddleston will also be causing havoc as Loki in his very own branch of reality, courtesy of the Tesseract. Like Loki, Hawkeye will be getting his own show, starring Jeremy Renner, although we’re not expecting to see it premiere until 2021. 

On the animated side of things, What If…? will explore a whole range of alternative storylines within the Marvel universe, including what might have happened had Peggy Carter taken the soldier serum instead of Steve Rogers. And just because it’s animated doesn’t mean the stars are stepping back – 25 of the biggest Marvel stars have been confirmed to be returning to voice their characters, including Hayley Atwell and Samuel L. Jackson. 

Disney will be using its TV shows to introduce new heroes as well as delving deeper into the stories of its existing stars. It was confirmed during D23 that Ms. Marvel, She-Hulk and Moon Knight will be making their debuts on Disney Plus with their own dedicated shows. When those debuts will be, however, is still unknown.

Disney Plus Marvel TV shows: release dates
Marvel's Hero Project documentary (with launch)
The Falcon and the Winter Soldier (Late 2020)
WandaVision (Early 2021)
Loki (Early 2021)
What If? (Mid-2021)
Hawkeye (Late 2021)
Marvel's 6161 (2020)
Ms. Marvel (no release date)
Moon Knight (no release date)
She-Hulk (no release date)


