Assassin's Creed Ragnarok: Gameplay, Release Date, Story Location, and More

Assassin’s Creed Ragnarok is reportedly the next mainline Assassin’s Creed game, if recent leaks are to be believed. Thanks to alleged Amazon and GameStop item listings, we can surmise a few things about the next installment in the long-running franchise. What’s next for Ubisoft’s biggest franchise? Read on below to find out what we know, and what our best guesses are. If you want to stay completely spoiler-free on certain (unconfirmed) story details, skip past the appropriate sections.

Keep in mind though that Ubisoft has yet to confirm any such information, so take everything with one seriously large grain of salt.

Assassin’s Creed Ragnarok Release Date
Ubisoft hasn’t confirmed AC Ragnarok’s existence yet, much less a release date. That said, like many big-budget video games of its kind, it’s likely to release somewhere between October and early December to line up with the holiday season. Assassin’s Creed Odyssey released on October 5, 2018, while its predecessor Assassin’s Creed Origins released on October 27, 2017. Ubisoft likes to get things out a little ahead of the usual November deluge (where the likes of Call of Duty and Battlefield usually reign), so don’t be shocked if we see preview coverage sometime around E3 2020 and then a strong leadup to mid-October.

What systems is Assassin’s Creed Ragnarok on?
According to the leaked info, Assassin’s Creed Ragnarok will be on PS4, Xbox One, PC, and then also the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X. Ubisoft has not confirmed any such details.

When does Assassin’s Creed Ragnarok take place?
(Possible spoilers follow) 
Judging from the leaks, Assassin’s Creed Ragnarok will take place in the Viking era. According to leaked information shared on Reddit, AC Ragnarok will start in or around 845 CE, during the Viking-led siege of Paris.

The period between 800 CE and about 900 CE were heavily characterized by these Viking incursions. According to the leaked info, the meat of the game will start during 863 CE with a character named Jora, who can be either male or female.

As is customary for Assassin’s Creed games, we’ll meet a number of broadly defined historical figures. According to the leak, the player character will meet King of Wessex Alfred, Rollo, the first ruler of Normandy, and Charles the Fat, the emperor of the Carolingian Empire.

