MCU Phase 4 new release dates, movie list, Disney Plus shows and more
For Marvel Cinematic Universe fans wondering which foes their favorite superheroes will face next, taking a glance at Marvel Studios' Phase 4 plot holds some answers — including which heroes star in new original shows on Disney Plus.

Coronavirus has thrown a giant wrench into the MCU schedule, with Black Widow's release delayed knocking everything else back. New release dates are reflected below.

Confirmed MCU Phase 4 Films
We already know a handful of titles to expect for Phase 4, but more details are sure to come. Trying to catch up on Phases 1-3? Check out our Marvel movies in order guide. 

These are all the movies we can expect to see during MCU's Phase 4:
Black Widow (Nov. 6, 2020)
Shang-Chi and The Legend of The Ten Rings (May 7, 2021)
Doctor Strange in The Multiverse of Madness (November 5, 2021)
Thor: Love and Thunder (February 28, 2022)


Is Avengers 5 in Phase 4?

Avengers is Marvel’s most central franchise, the glue that holds the current MCU together. Which is why fans like us might be concerned by the absence of an Avengers title in the Phase 4 plan. 

Infinity War and Endgame writer Christopher Markus told the Los Angeles Times that "Phase 4 can go in a lot more directions than any of the preceding three phases." He also said, "If you throw in the Disney+ streaming thing… I think it will be a phase that is shaped differently than the preceding ones." 

So it seems we won't witness a fifth Avengers movie during Phase 4 (for now, at least.) 

Confirmed MCU Phase 4 Disney Plus Series
 
 Phase 4 won't just unfold on the big-screen – Disney Plus, Disney's exclusive streaming platform, will host original MCU series starting in Fall 2020. These are all the shows we can expect to see during Phase 4: 
 
 The Falcon and The Winter Soldier (Fall 2020)
 WandaVision (Spring 2020)
 Loki (Spring 2021)
 What If...? (Summer 2021)
 Hawkeye (Fall 2021)
Ms. Marvel, She Hulk and Moon Knight (dates TBA)
Marvel confirmed 3 new live-action Disney+ shows at D23. The first will be an adaptation of the Ms. Marvel series that began in 2013, which features Kamala Khan as the first Muslim hero to ever lead a Marvel comic (or Marvel show). The other two announced shows are Moon Knight and She Hulk.

While Disney didn't announce specific dates for when these shows will hit Disney+, a timeline shown to the audience suggested Ms. Marvel debuts after Hawkeye, and Moon Knight comes next, and She Hulk is the last in the current schedule.
