n India the full-form of MBBS is Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery. It is generally a 5-year course that can be completed from a college accredited by the Medical Council of India, to receive a degree titled MBBS (Medical colleges in India).[9] Medical colleges may also teach Post Graduate as well as Paramedical courses. Admission to MBBS programs in government colleges can be highly competitive because of subsidized education and extensive hands-on experience.

The MBBS course starts with the basic pre and para-clinical subjects such as biochemistry, physiology, anatomy, microbiology, pathology, forensic medicine including toxicology and pharmacology. The students simultaneously obtain hands-on training in the wards and out-patient departments, where they interact with real patients for five years. The curriculum aims to inculcate standard protocols of history taking, examination, differential diagnosis and complete patient Management. The student is taught to determine what investigations will be useful for a patient and what are the best treatment options. The curriculum also contains a thorough practical knowledge and practice of performing standard clinical procedures. The course also contains a 12-month-long internship, in which an intern is rotated across various specialties. Besides standard clinical care, one also gets a thorough experience of ward management, staff management, and thorough counselling skills.

The degree awarded is "Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery". The minimum requirements for the MBBS course are 50% marks in physics, chemistry, biology and English in the '10+2' examinations. For reserved category students, the requirement is 40%. MBBS admissions are centralised. The qualifying exam for admission into MBBS courses is the National eligibility cum entrance test ( NEET ). The government is planning to come up with new medical colleges in 58 districts of India. The new colleges will add 5,800 more MBBS seats in the country.
