Grocery shopping might forever change because of virtual reality. Virtual supermarkets make shopping fun and exciting. Moreover, they also feel safer, especially during a global health crisis.
Although the majority of consumers prefer to shop in brick-and-mortar stores, many companies have dabbled in VR. They’ve been pushing its limits. They’re using the technology in many different ways, but with the same goal in mind. That is to enhance supermarket shopping.
Virtual Reality in Supermarkets
Instead of shopping for goods on a retailer’s website, virtual reality takes you to a digital environment. You can browse the aisles. Then, you can pick up the items from the shelves and add them to your cart. Simply put, it’s far more interactive than the usual online shopping experience. It offers positive experiences that drive more conversions. Customer service can also improve because of VR. As a result, it increases repeat visits and revenue.
VR-generated supermarkets let consumers browse the shelves without leaving their homes. It makes shopping more convenient, fun, and exciting. Although virtual, it can still feel like you’re moving through a physical space. That’s all thanks to 360-degree panoramas.
While it is fun for consumers, VR is also valuable for retailers. VR experiences give brands an opportunity to understand consumer behavior. They can then use it to tailor their services to fit the needs of their market.
Virtual Supermarkets
HappyFresh is one of the leading online grocery platforms in Southeast Asia. In 2017, they launched their first virtual reality supermarket called HappyReality. It’s aimed at consumers who like to shop at physical stores, but simply don’t have the time for it. Thus, it gives them the best of both worlds.
VR makes shopping quick and easy. Instead of rummaging the shelves for products you like, you can use its heat vision function. It highlights all your favorite brands. It enables you to pick up and pay for the products you need in a matter of minutes. As it’s entirely set in a virtual space, you can buy everything you need from the comfort of your home. You will even have plenty of time to spare.
Walmart also has plans to set up virtual reality groceries for consumers. They’ve filed two patents for a VR shopping experience. Shoppers will need a headset and gloves to get a full sensory online experience. Their orders will be forwarded to a fulfillment center. Then, robots will prepare the orders for shipping.