Augmented and virtual reality (AR and VR) are two technology concepts providing significant benefits in this new digital reality. These technologies open new ways of working in areas such as manufacturing, gaming, media, automotive and healthcare, allowing for both increased productivity and completely new user experiences.

Technologies driving the 5G evolution
The telecom industry has always evolved to take advantage of newer, better technologies as they become available – starting with 1G and evolving into 4G, and now 5G. In fact, the pace of technology adoption will accelerate with 5G. Technologies such as virtualization, cloud native, cloud computing, edge computing, artificial intelligence, machine learning, network slicing, automation, management and orchestration are all key components in enabling the use cases and business models that are expected to come with 5G. These technologies will contribute to the high-performance, high-capacity, high-reliability and low-latency associated with 5G, all delivered at a low total cost of ownership (TCO). This combination of high performance and low TCO is essential, both in addressing the exponential growth in data traffic and in handling the increasing number of IoT devices.
5G business models
5G will empower the telecom industry to develop new business models and use cases, creating additional value to customers and new revenue streams for telecom operators. In addition to consumer and personal communication services, 5G will enable many services to businesses and various industries. A recent Ericsson report identified the 5G business potential, particularly addressing the industrial segment, to be around USD 700 billion. That’s a 35 percent increase compared to the traditional consumer market. But, consumers will also see new services coming their way, within areas such as immersive media, cloud gaming and live event experiences, which will also contribute to new business for the operators.
Not only will 5G enhance the current mobile broadband capabilities significantly, but it will also help support new business models such as fixed wireless access (FWA), private networks, and network slicing over public networks. These business models could be adapted to meet the requirements of various industries, addressing criteria such as low latency (manufacturing and financial services), wide area coverage (automotive) and cost-efficiency (massive IoT).
AR/VR use cases at home and enterprises
What is virtual reality? VR is a computer-generated simulation of a real or alternative world. It is used in games and entertainment, training, education and scientific areas.
What is augmented reality? AR combines the real world with some virtual elements. AR enhances the viewing experience by super imposing images on top of the real world.
AR and VR uses are cropping up in many industries, such as health care, retail, automotive, education, and use cases such as location- based VR (LBVR).  
Enabling AR/VR experiences with 5G and edge compute
As we have been touching upon, the new immersive experiences enabled with AR and VR will transform the way we consume and interact with content, both from a consumer perspective and from an industrial perspective.
However, creating AR and VR experiences does not come without technical challenges. Combining and synchronizing the real world and the motions of the user with a digital world requires a massive amount of graphical rendering processes. Because the graphics require heavy rendering, on-device processes are augmented by splitting workloads between the AR/VR device and the edge cloud. Graphics rendering on the edge cloud augment latency-sensitive on-device head tracking, controller tracking, hand tracking and motion tracking to photon processing. This concept is called split rendering. But when the rendering is done in the cloud, and not on a mobile device, you also need a fast and reliable 5G connection to deliver the final experience to the user.
Both AR and VR use cases require stringent network requirements such as low latency, high reliability and high bandwidth. Ericsson has optimized its 5G core and radio infrastructure to offer an unmatched high-quality end-user VR experience. As you see in the below pictures, these use cases can be delivered to end users either via a dedicated private network or via a network slice over a public network.