While the term Internet of Things, or IoT, is a relativity new term the use of internet related technologies dates back to the creation of the internet itself. But the IoT movement is more concerned with simple devices that traditionally would not have internet capabilities (such as sensors and data loggers) which is why it is considered a separate sector to standard internet computing technologies such as computers, laptops, and phones. 

The first IoT devices were simple in nature and often targeted for niche markets including basic remote temperature and humidity logging. As the nature of the data that was being gathered was benign in nature (i.e. not sensitive), security was given the minimal concern with many devices using default passwords and unencrypted messaging protocols. Since the number of IoT devices at the beginning was minimal combined with the lack of capabilities these devices went unnoticed by security experts, cybercriminals, and governments alike. But all of this changed as technology improved, devices became more intelligent, and the nature of the data being gathered became more sensitive.

Introduction to Edge Computing
Currently, IoT devices gather data from their surroundings and stream this data to a cloud-based platform which in-turn can provide multiple features including data viewing, data learning, and data processing. For example, an advanced home automation system might have various IoT sensors around a property whose data is streamed to a cloud-based service that determines how environmental controls should be adjusted. This use of the cloud to perform data processing is often called “cloud-computing” and essentially means that the data processing is done remotely from the IoT device responsible for gathering that data. Edge computing, however, is where the IoT device itself is responsible for some proportion of data processing either partially or entirely. Early IoT devices would not be capable of edge computing due to the limitations of technology at the time but with the introduction of powerful microcontrollers at equivalent prices local IoT devices can start to process their own data. 



Advantages of Edge Computing
Edge computing holds a lot of advantages over cloud-computing including security, latency, and reliability. Since edge computing devices transmit little data to a cloud-based system (if at all) sensitive data is less exposed to potential sources of attacks. The lack of transmission means that an attacker would need to gain direct entry to the device itself as opposed to performing a man-in-the-middle attack, an attack on the server itself, or spoofing the server. Keeping data local to a device also provides designers with more opportunity to protect the data as soon as it is gathered with the use of memory encryption as well as dedicated security hardware. Edge computing devices can also perform partial processing on sensitive data before sending it to a cloud-based system for further processing which can help obscure data and thereby reducing its usefulness to an attacker (i.e. a trained neural net is far less sensitive than visual data from a camera).

Conclusion
Edge computing provides designers with a whole new paradigm of computing that can see low-latency, high reliability IoT devices that can combine the best features of cloud-computing with local processing. Hardware security features such as secure boot and root-of-trust will become key technologies for securing devices and the inclusion of AI engines will allow devices to perform the majority of data processing locally. But despite the many security advantages provided by edge computing designers still need to carefully consider how their device handles sensitive data, how it can potentially be used maliciously, and how they can help to not only protect the users but also contribute to the world stage in an ever more interconnected future. 

 
